[Music]
okay pet owners you can always tell when
your dog is happy right
wagging tails and excited playful
barking speak for themselves but it's
not so easy to tell why your pooch is
sad or even depressed let's try to
figure out the most common reasons your
fluffy friend might be upset starting
with number 12 you haven't set a daily
routine and rules for your dog your dog
has its own biological clock which is
why a routine is so important dogs want
and even need rules to follow
consistency makes the world predictable
to them so they become more confident
and less stressed try to feed walk and
train your dog at the same time every
day having a daily routine doesn't mean
avoiding fun all together dr. debra
primo vaq recommends that you include
quality time with your pet within that
fixed routine it can be something basic
like sitting next to each other and
watching TV every so often you can let
the dog pick the shows to wash together
just a few days after you've started
practicing a daily routine you'll notice
that your dog has become happier number
eleven you like to dress up your dog if
you haven't trained your dog to wear
clothing since it was a puppy you'll
find it difficult to dress it at an
older age it's okay to put a sweater or
a coat on your dog during walks if you
have a toy breed or a breed with short
hair your best bet is a blend of
washable wool and cotton or acrylic
however if you have a Siberian Husky
Palamo or some breed with a dense coat
you don't need to bother with a sweater
and hats and costumes are uncomfortable
for any breed and they just look dumb
the opinions of the narrator are not
necessarily the opinions of Brightside
management and we are not responsible
for any bad jokes either number 10 you
use words more than body language in
2018 a group of veterinarians at the
University of Barrie did a comprehensive
study on communication in dog
they don't deny that in over 30,000
years of living with humans dogs have
gained certain communication skills to
understand their owners they've mastered
basic commands such as walk tree toy and
the like but still they don't speak the
human language they rely on your body
language to try to figure out how you
feel or what you think when you do
confusing things such as tell your pup
to stay and lean toward it stretching
your hand forward it gets upset because
it doesn't know if you really want it to
stay or come closer so try communicating
more with your body when talking to your
pet instead of trying to chat with it
number nine you tease your pet if you
ever barked back at a barking dog yeah
or maybe pulled on a dog's tail man or a
better yet you show a treat to a dog and
then hide it or eat it yourself if it's
not dog food of course mmm guilty
remember this what's funny for a human
can be hurtful and offensive for an
animal according to the whole dog
journal teasing your pet won't help
mutual understanding and can cause an
obsessive compulsive behavior and other
problems number eight you pull on your
dog's leash your dog can not only read
your body language but also the leash
tension levels when you pull it you
signal that you're tense nervous or on
alert causing stress you shouldn't let
your dog drag you around either
if your pet isn't listening to you stop
as soon as the leash loosens and the dog
looks at you you can continue your walk
don't forget to take treats with you to
encourage your dog's good behavior a
leash that's too short also makes the
animal nervous if you let your dog walk
on a long leash you make it clear that
everything is under your control and
there's no danger this way it'll be
easier for you to walk your dog because
it won't feel constant tension let your
dogs sniff around in 2015 an
international group of researchers
headed by Burton Nelson study
odors play in a dog's life they
concluded that it impacts their behavior
and well-being a walk for a dog isn't
just a time when it can relieve itself
it's also an opportunity to get to know
the surrounding territory many times
dogs pee on things to leave information
other dogs come by sniff where the prior
dog went gets the information and then
also pees there yeah it's like Facebook
the first dog leaves a post and others
comment on it that's why your pet will
become upset if you drag it away from
trees and curbs all the time number
seven you don't take your dog's fear of
water seriously most dogs love swimming
in the open water because it makes them
feel free however even breeds that love
swimming in lakes lying in puddles and
running through lawn sprinklers might
hate taking baths dogs don't like the
sound of running water or the slippery
surface so if you want to reduce your
dog stress place a slip resistant mat in
the bottom of the tub give it lots of
treats and compliment it for its good
behavior 6 you hug your dog it's natural
for humans to show affection by wrapping
their arms around someone's body but hey
dogs don't have arms so their ways of
showing love and support are different
imagine a creature 3 to 10 times your
size approaching you and squeezing you a
lot of dogs will take it especially the
traditional family breeds like a golden
retriever but most pooches will feel
threatened and uncomfortable if you do
so dr. Alexandra Horowitz has pointed
out the typical signs of a dog feeling
uncomfortable during a hug ears pinned
back lip licking yawning and trying to
get away
number five you yell at your dog dogs
are afraid of loud sounds and can't
understand what you want from them if
you're unhappy with your dog's behavior
take a certain pose of your choosing and
make an upset facial expression if your
puppy isn't yet trained enough to wait
for a walk and leaves puddles on the
floor yelling at it will only make
things worse
if you punish your dog physically or
yell at it it won't become better
trained
it'll just be afraid of you and sneakin
chances are it'll do the same thing when
you aren't around a 2016 study by the
Department of Psychology Brigham Young
University concluded that dogs can
always tell when people are angry and
they become more hesitant to do with the
same people asked of them number four
you don't play with your dog enough if
he can't find enough time to play with
your pooch be prepared to have a damage
a lot of things when you're not home
your pet needs to release its energy and
if you can't help with this it'll find
its own way and you won't like it
playing with your dog is important
activities like running help develop
your dog's physical stamina and
hide-and-seek for example is good for
its intelligence Rebecca Somerville
animal behavior specialist at the
University of Edinburgh explains that a
dog playing by itself isn't a sign that
it's happy
it could be trying to show you how bored
it is and basically crying for help
playing together is a great way of
bonding and keeping your pooch content
number three you leave your pet alone
dogs are social animals and they don't
like to be by themselves of course you
can't spend all your time with your dog
I wish but you can decrease the level of
its anxiety to do so spend as much time
as possible with it when you're home
follow a precise schedule the animal
should know the time when you leave home
and when you come back buy different
toys so that your dog can entertain
itself while you're away
number two you let strangers pet your
dog if a stranger comes up to your dog
and tries to pet it saying what a cutie
the best thing you can do is thank them
and politely ask them not to come any
closer
veterinary behaviorist dr. Alana Reisner
explains that your dog's character or
mood can be different and even the most
sociable and kind dog can be reactive if
you let everyone touch your dog you
caused it to be stressed out and you
stop being a leader in your dog's eyes
when I say strangers I don't mean only
humans but other dogs as well some
owners just love to push their dogs into
doggy get-togethers at parks now think
about it do you personally want to make
friends with every human you meet in the
street if your answer is no then why
would your dog's answer be yes number
one you're depressed if you've noticed
that your dog is sad pay attention to
your own state of mind your pet feels
your mood and if you feel bad your dog
can become depressed too dr. Weil Ani
song explains depression isn't
contagious but when you feel low you pay
less attention to your pet or do it with
much less enthusiasm your pooch can make
your mood better but you should put in
some effort as well get yourself
together and go for a walk with your dog
or play with it at the park and you'll
do your pooch a lot of good if you quit
smoking different studies including one
in 2007 of 30 Yorkshire Terriers at the
university of Brasilia have shown that
dogs suffer from passive smoking which
can result in serious lung diseases for
them okay now it's your turn how do you
comfort your dog when it's obviously
upset let me know down in the comments
if you learned something new today then
give this video a like and share with a
friend but hey don't go dressing up your
poor dog just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right
video click on it and enjoy stay on the
bright side of life